well in Israel the war cabinet has been
meeting to consider its response a
spokesman for the Iranian government
insisted that Teran had shown restraint
and that the strikes were a limited Act
of self-defense our Middle East
correspondent Lucy Williamson has the
latest Israel is deciding how to respond
to this hundreds of drones and missiles
fired over the weekend from Iran damage
on the ground was limited damage to
Regional stability much more
severe at an air base hit by missiles in
the neav desert today Israel's Chief of
Staff promised a response Iran will face
the consequences for its actions we will
choose our response
accordingly the IDF remains ready to
counter any threat from Iran and its
Terror
proxies Israel says only a half handful
of missiles made it through air defenses
but this direct confrontation with Iran
the First on Israeli soil has thrown the
Middle East off
balance what's shaken Israel in these
attacks isn't the damage caused but how
they happened with drones and missiles
sent straight from Iran and what these
strikes left broken isn't so much
infrastructure it's Iran's fear of
launching a direct attack
Iran's attack came with careful
signaling its government warned Israel's
allies of the strikes and said they were
punishment for an assassination in Syria
and that Iran now considered the matter
closed our advice to all the supporters
of the Zionist regime is to appreciate
Iran's responsible and measured action
and dissuade the Zionist regime from
committing more wicked acts which would
bring incalculable
consequences but Israel has said it will
exact a price from Iran its prime
minister under pressure from allies to
deescalate the situation has been
discussing with his War cabinet exactly
what that price should
Beal one former Diplomat with experience
of Iran says military action is only one
option our military options are far more
varied than the Iranians um and frankly
the Iranian uh barrage was a a
demonstration of weakness not of
strength there's clearly uh a strong
need for Israel to uh however it decides
to respond and the respond can response
can come in many different ways not just
military Israel is already fighting
iranian-backed groups in Gaza to the
South and Lebanon to the north a far
less powerful opponent delivered a major
blow on the 7th of October Israel's
challenge now is how to restore a fear
of conflict in its biggest enemy without
triggering a war Lucy Williamson BBC
News
Jerusalem our International editor
Jeremy Bowen is here so as we heard
Jeremy Israel continuing to insist it
will retaliate even while the US is
saying Iran has embarrassed itself well
I think they're trying to get the
message over to the Israelis that look
yes your right to be concerned you have
been attacked
but this is under control look Iran's
embarrassed itself it's not that simple
though for the Israelis uh I think they
feel the need very strongly to send a
signal a really determined signal that
they uh are not deterred in any sense by
Iran there's something very deep in
Israel's DNA that it has to push back
it's not a question of turning the other
cheek it's an eye for an eye at least uh
that is something which is really part
of
their ethos but the gamble is always how
is the other side going to respond
because as you've heard the Iranians are
also saying hang on this was
self-defense we were just doing it to
make a point also to restore to Terence
and I think what they were also trying
to do was uh to avoid making causing a
large numbers of Civilian casualties
which would have escalated matters so
Israel is having those same similar
kinds of discussions about the way that
they need to go the Iranian Army Chief
has said today in the last few hours he
said something like our attack on Israel
was limited if Israel retaliates there
will be a far greater response you know
from netanyahu's point of view for many
years he has seen Iran as Israel's
number one enemy bana I remember him
saying to me in the BBC office in
Jerusalem about about 2006 when armad
was President he said look armad had is
Hitler and it's
1938 you know it wasn't an exclusive he
was saying it a lot at the time to
people but that's very much his view now
don't forget there's also the war in
Gaza going on that's something which is
still urgent it's still there's still
the famine there is still military
action going on there in the middle part
of the Gaza Strip but as far as Israel's
uh Western allies are concerned it is
less of a priority these last few days
than Iran Iran seems a lot more urgent
doesn't mean to say that they've
forgotten about what's going on there
but instead of talking about differences
potential war crimes famines they're
talking about Unity coalitions facing
Iran together